1 Define an Operating System. Mention its main functions.
2 Distinguish between system software and application software
3 State inter- Process communication (IPC)
4 State fragmentation. Difference between internal and external fragmentation.
5 Differentiate between process and thread.
6 Explain OS structure with microkernel approach.
7 Differentiate between One-to-One multithreading models and many-to-many multithreading models with diagram
8 Describe page replacement algorithms(FIFO,LRU,OPTIMAL)with examples
9 Elaborate Process Life Cycle with diagram
11 Discuss about contiguous Memory Allocation in detail
12 Explain Segmentation With Paging
15 Describe the Evolution of Operating System in detail
16 Discuss the structure of an Operating System with a neat diagram.
17 Describe various Operating System services.
18 Compare Batch OS, Multiprogrammed OS, and Time-sharing OS.
19 Define a process and explain the process life cycle with diagram.
20 Demonstrate the Inter-Process Communication (IPC) mechanisms.
21 Explain the CPU Scheduling Algorithum write Advantages & Disadvantage.
22 Identify the Critical Section Problem and its requirements.
24 Demonstrate Deadlock prevention and deadlock recovery techniques.
25 Justify Segmentation with diagrams.
26 Identify Virtual Memory and Demand Paging.
27 Explain Page Replacement Algorithms: FIFO and LRU.
28 Prepare File allocation methods and free-space management.
29 Manage Disk scheduling algorithms and disk management.
30 Explain OS security, Virtual Machines, and Cloud OS concepts.
31 Compare Batch OS, Multiprogrammed OS, and Time-sharing OS.
32 Explain the structure of an Operating System with a neat diagram
33 State fragmentation. Differentiation between internal & external Fragmentation
34 Define evolution of operating system in detail
35 Elaborate Process Life Cycle with diagram
36 Distinguish between system software and application software
39 Explain different scheduling algorithms with advantage & disadvantage.
40 Justify File allocation methods and free-space management.
41 Describe threads and multithreading models and its types with diagram
42 Differentiate between demand paging and page replacement algorithms (FIFO,LRU,OPTIMAL)with examples
44 Discuss Disk scheduling algorithms and disk management.
45 Explain OS security, Virtual Machines, and Cloud OS concepts.
46 State inter- Process communication (IPC)
47 Describe the structure of an Operating System with a neat diagram.
48 Define fragmentation. Differentiation between internal & external Fragmentation
49 Expresses various Operating System services
50 What is Segmentation?
51 Differentiate between process & thread.
53 Elaborate the CPU Scheduling Algorithum write Advantages & Disadvantage.
54 Prepare File allocation methods and free-space management
55 Describe demand paging and page replacement algorithms (FIFO,LRU,OPTIMAL)with examples
58 Examine directory implementation method and file allocation method (linked, Indexed, contiguous)
59 Explain OS security, Virtual Machines, and Cloud OS concepts
60 Demonstrate Deadlock prevention and deadlock recovery techniques.